Admission Date:  2009-01-26 00:00:00     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth: 1986-10-02 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  M

Service:

ADDENDUM:

Under the neurologic aspect of his care in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit, the patient was on high dose paralytic
as well as some high dose steroids. The patient continued to
be lethargic with decreased movement of his upper extremities
as well as lower extremities.

The patient had a head CT which was unequivocal for any
findings other than slight sinusitis.  The patient also had a
magnetic resonance scan of his head and his spine to evaluate
if there was any central process causing his upper and lower
extremity weakness.  Both the CT scan as well as the magnetic
resonance scan of the head, as well as the magnetic resonance
scan of the neck, revealed no central process that causes
extensive motor weakness.

Neurology was consulted and attributed this to be a critical
care neuropathy.  An EMG was also performed which only
revealed that it was neuropathy, however, the patient was
very sedated at the time and it was not the best time to
perform it because the patient was under high dose sedation.
However, according to neurology, it was very likely to be a
Intensive Care Unit neuropathy and the patient will
eventually regain his strength as high dose paralytics as
well as high dose steroids as well as the stress from being
in sepsis alone will hopefully wear off and the patient will
regain his strength hopefully to his full ability.

The patient's mental status apparently was normalized towards
the end of the admission as the patient was responding
appropriately with head nods as well as minimal spontaneous
movements of his upper and lower extremities.  The patient
was also able to attempt to speak and was able to talk with
us although be it extremely difficult for the patient due to
his weakness and was able to talk and let us know exactly
what was bothering him.

We will add more to this dictation summary as his long and
extensive hospital course continues.




                          Dejoun Duffiney, M.D.  7452

Dictated By:Dejoun Duffiney

MEDQUIST36

D:  2009-01-26 00:00:00  13:19
T:  2009-01-26 00:00:00  10:14
JOB#:  7452
