Admission Date:  2013-03-09 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2013-03-09 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1979-03-06 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 54-year-old white
female with a history of hypertension and diet controlled
diabetes mellitus and possible systemic lupus erythematosus.
Several hours prior to admission, the patient noted a sinus
type headache with tightness in the frontal area, nose, eyes,
and took sinus medications without relief.  The headache
persisted and she also developed associated neck pain and
bilateral shoulder.  She found it difficult to sleep.  She
took some Tylenol and still had no relief and subsequent to
this, the patient headache persisted and she presented to the
Emergency Room with persistent headache and was found to have
difficulty remembering whether the headache had come on
suddenly and denied any associated nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, constipation, weakness or further numbness or
neurologic symptoms.

123 Any St.US MEDICAL HISTORY:  History of low back pain, history
of hypertension times ten years, history of noninsulin
dependent diet controlled diabetes, history of a tubal
ligation and a past history of migraine headaches.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Zestril 20 mg q.d., nifedipine 30 mg
q.d., and Prempro 2.5 mg q.d.

ALLERGIES:  She has an allergic history reaction to
penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She works as a administrative assistant at
the UPMCE.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Positive for sarcoid in her mother.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was noted to be a healthy,
but obese female in no acute distress.  Neurological exam
shows awake, alert and oriented times three with fluent
speech, normal language and comprehension. Pupils equal,
round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements intact and visual fields were full to
confrontation.  The face was symmetric and sensation was
intact to light touch.  The tongue and uvula were midline and
the remainder of the cranial nerve exam was unremarkable.
Reflexes were 2+ bilaterally in the upper extremities, 0 at
the knees and ankles and the toes were downgoing.  Sensation
was intact to light touch throughout the extremities.  The
finger to nose and finger showed slight tremor on the left
but no true dysmetria.  Gait was steady and normal based and
negative Romberg and there was normal tandem gait.  The vital
signs at the time of admission showed a blood pressure of
170/103.  Heart rate 86.  Respiratory rate 16 with 02
saturation at 98% and a temperature was afebrile.

Due to the findings in the Emergency Room, the patient
underwent an MRI/MRA which showed abnormal flow void in the
right temporal lobe and question of a right mid cerebral
artery aneurysm.  There is no evidence of hemorrhage however,
and the MRA confirmed a 4 mm right mid cerebral artery
bifurcation aneurysm.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Laboratory studies at the time of admission
were within normal limits, and due to the clinical findings,
the patient was admitted to the hospital for further
evaluation and management and was taken to the Angiogram
Suite on the morning following admission where a diagnostic
angiogram was performed and the patient was found to have a
right middle cerebral artery aneurysm.  Due to those
findings, the patient was taken to the Operating Room on the
2013-03-09 00:00:00 where under general endotracheal
anesthetic, the patient underwent a right craniotomy with a
clipping of the right middle cerebral artery aneurysm
performed by Dr. Formosa and the patient tolerated the
procedure well.

Her postoperative course was essentially unremarkable.  She
did receive two units of fresh frozen plasm within the first
24 hours postoperatively for a initial INR of 1.5.  Follow up
INR was within normal limits.  She also received two units of
packed red blood cells as well as ample hydration throughout
the remainder of her hospitalization.  She was subsequently
discharged home in stable and improved condition on the
morning of the 2013-03-09 00:00:00 with follow-up to see Dr.
Formosa in the Clinic in approximately three weeks time and to
return to the Clinic for a brief visit to have her staples
removed in approximately five days.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable and improved.






                          Hahna Bartash, M.D.  20699

Dictated By:Hahna Bartash

MEDQUIST36

D:  2013-03-09 00:00:00  11:39
T:  2013-03-09 00:00:00  11:39
JOB#:  20699
