Admission Date:  2010-02-04 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2010-02-04 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1935-01-28 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. Habeeb was a 60-year-old
right handed African American male who was admitted on
2010-02-04 00:00:00 with history of acute left weakness.  He had a past
medical history of diabetes, coronary artery disease, and
prior stroke.  He presented to the Emergency Room with sudden
onset left sided weakness said by report occurring
approximately 30 minutes before presenting to the Emergency
Room.  The patient was a patient of Dr. Habeeb, and the
patient stated at that moment he takes Coumadin for prior
strokes.

The patient vomited and aspirated coming back from CT scan,
and drove his O2 saturation transiently to the 60s requiring
intubation for airway protection.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. CVA in 2010-02-04 00:00:00 with right sided dysmetria, left parietal
stroke in 2010-02-04 00:00:00 with left supraclinoid IC stenosis.
2. Diabetes.
3. Hypertension.
4. Coronary artery disease.

MEDICATIONS ON PRESENTATION:  He said that he took Coumadin,
and he could not remember the rest of his medications.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION IN THE EMERGENCY ROOM:  He presented
with a blood pressure of 190/118, temperature of 96.8 and
saturation of 97%.  General:  The patient appeared stated
age, lying in bed looking to the right in no acute distress.
HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic, sclerae white.  Neck:
Supple.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate, and rhythm, normal S1, S2, no
murmurs, gallops, or rubs.  Abdomen:  Normal bowel sounds,
soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  Warm, no
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Neurologic examination in the
Emergency Room:  Cognitive:  He was awake, alert, but not
fully cooperative.  Able to state his name, but he was not
able to distinct that there was any problem with him at that
point.  He was able to name objects, follow simple commands
with possible perseveration.  Speech:  Normal voice, quality,
articulation, comprehension.  Fluent without paraphasias.
Cranial nerves:  Face with left lower droop.  Extraocular
movements gaze deviation to the right, but was able to look
to the midline and past midline to the left.  Gaze appears
conjugate.  Visual fields possibly decreased, but treads on
the left.  Pupils are reactive to light directly and
consensually, and accommodation.  Palate was symmetric and
tongue was midline.  Hearing is grossly intact.  Sensation
difficult to assess.  Motor examination:  He was able to show
his left thumb and squeeze left hand on command.  He was not
able to lift left arm against gravity.  He was able to raise
his left leg against gravity, but was not able to move his
left foot on command.  He was able to raise right arm, leg,
and moves foot without difficulty.  Reflexes were +2 all
throughout, and plantar responses were upgoing bilaterally.
Sensory:  He withdraws from pain in the left arm and leg, but
difficulty localizing pain.  Responded to pain appropriately
in right arm and leg.

LABORATORIES:  He had a white blood cells of 11.1, hemoglobin
14.3, hematocrit 40.6%, platelets 379 with an INR of 3.0.

Head CT scan was performed immediately in the Emergency Room,
and it showed a large right basal ganglia hemorrhage with a
1.5 cm right to left shift with obliteration of the right
lateral ventricle.  Interventricular extension of the
hemorrhage was present with blood in the fourth and third
ventricle.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Mr. Habeeb was admitted to the Neurological
Intensive Care Unit.  He was given fresh-frozen plasma 2
units and vitamin K 10 mg subQ to reverse the INR of 3.0.
His blood pressure needed to be maintained below 140
systolic, and his head was elevated at 30 degrees.  He was
started on fingersticks and insulin-sliding scale, and he was
ruled out for myocardial infarction with cardiac enzymes.  He
was intubated, and x-ray of his chest showed a right lower
lobe aspiration pneumonia.

During the hospital course, neurologic examination of patient
showed pupils fixed, 1.5 mm, positive oculocephalic reflex,
positive corneal reflex, face asymmetric, gag present.
Patient did not have any active movement in upper
extremities, but he was able to move his lower extremities
spontaneously.  The patient was unresponsive and he will not
open eyes or follow commands.  He continued on ventilator and
followup CT scan does show increase of blood and worsening of
the left to right shift with signs of oncoherniation.

Over the period of three days, the patient presented
initially with decerebration posturing in upper extremities
to pain, and 72 hours afterwards, he presented with
decortication posture.  His neurological examination was
unchanged for one week.  Four days prior to his death,
patient started opening his eyes spontaneously, but not on
command, and his neurological status continues with
decortication posturing, oculocephalic reflex present,
corneal reflex present, gag reflex present.  He was started
on nasogastric feeds, and he required cefazolin to treat his
aspiration pneumonia.

A family meeting was held explaining with his family present
what his status neurologically and medically was and what his
prognosis was with such a large bleed in the brain with
evidence of oncoherniation.

On Sunday, 2010-02-04 00:00:00, the family agreed to extubate
Mr. Habeeb and put him on comfort measures only, given that
he was found an advanced directive signed by Mr. Habeeb
123 Any St.usly.  He was extubated on the 2010-02-04 00:00:00, and he
was declared dead at 20:47 at night.  An autopsy will be
performed.

Family was informed of his death.



                          Yeshayahu Merchant, M.D.  16641


Dictated By:Yeshayahu Merchant

MEDQUIST36

D:  2010-02-04 00:00:00  11:51
T:  2010-02-04 00:00:00  14:55
JOB#:  16641
