Admission Date:  2009-08-23 00:00:00       Discharge Date:  2009-08-23 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1938-08-23 00:00:00 00:00:00       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  (Per patient) Mitral valve regurgitation
noted on yearly physical examination.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. Fiori is a 63 year old
male, otherwise healthy who was found to have a systolic
workup.  Workup revealed mitral regurgitation approximately
two years ago.  He had been followed serially with
electrocardiograms and was noted to have worsening valvular
dysfunction recently.  He had a cardiac catheterization in
2009-08-23 00:00:00, which showed normal coronaries, ejection
fraction was 66%, he had 4+ mitral regurgitation.  Cardiac
echocardiogram in 2009-08-23 00:00:00 stated the report was
unavailable at the time of his preoperative surgical
evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post tonsillectomy,
history of rotator cuff injury and also a fractured right
hand.  Hypertension.  Last dental examination was 2009-08-23 00:00:00 which was within normal limits.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lisinopril 30 mg q. day; Aspirin
81 mg q. day.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin causes hives.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Occupation - He is an electrician.  Lives at
home with his wife and son.  Dasjia Fiori quit tobacco several years
ago.  No significant alcohol history.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  General, negative skin examination.
Review of systems negative.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat, noted from some decreased hearing in the right ear.
Respiratory, positive cough, question if secondary to his ACE
inhibitor, nonproductive, no recent fever, chills or sputum.
Cardiac, no palpitations, syncope, or tenderness.
Gastrointestinal, occasional heartburn.  Genitourinary,
negative. Musculoskeletal, negative peripheral vascular
disease, negative.  Neurological, no history of
cerebrovascular accident.  Endocrine, no history of diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  His pulse was 60, respiratory rate was
15, he was sating 98% on room air.  His blood pressure in the
right arm was 109/87 sitting.  In general he was a 63 year
old male in no acute distress.  He was age appropriate.  He
was well developed, well nourished.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat examination, normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils
equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation.
Extraocular movements intact.  Mucous membranes moist.
Oropharynx negative.  No cervical lymphadenopathy, no
jugulovenous distension and no bruit.  No murmurs radiating
to his neck.  Chest was clear to auscultation bilateral.
Heart was regular rate and rhythm with a Grade 3/6 systolic
murmur heard throughout.  Abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended, no hepatosplenomegaly.  No pulsatile mass and
no bruit.  Positive bowel sounds in all four quadrants.
Extremities, no cyanosis, clubbing or edema, or caput
tenderness.  Neurologically he was nonfocal.  He had palpable
pulses throughout, femoral, dorsalis pedis, posterior tibial
and radials bilaterally equal and symmetric.

LABORATORY DATA:  Pending at the time of preoperative
evaluation.  Electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm, 56, left
axis deviation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Given his severe mitral regurgitation he
was slated for a minimally invasive right axillary
thoracotomy, mitral valve repair.  After informed consent had
been obtained, he came to the hospital on 2009-08-23 00:00:00.
Once in the Operating Room a minimally invasive mitral valve
repair and annuloplasty with a 28 mm ring was performed
through a right axillary thoracotomy.  His pericardium was
left open.  The right arterial, right radial line, right
internal jugular Swan-Ganz catheter did have an atrial pacing
wire and a right pleural tube.  Mean pressure was 65 with a
PAT pressure of 49/25.  He was in sinus rhythm as he came off
of cardiopulmonary bypass.  He was on a Propofol drip at 20.
He did well and he went to Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit for
the first 24 hours of his postoperative recovery.  He was
hemodynamically stable by the morning on postoperative day
#1.  He was noted to have a temperature of 99.3.  He was 80,
being atrially paced.  His blood pressure was 103/56.  He was
sating 95% on 4 liters of nasal cannula as he had been
extubated on the night of surgery.  He was off Nitrodrip.  He
was on Neo drip, however, for blood pressure support after he
had been moved and gotten out of bed and his blood pressure
dropped to 50.  He was on .5 mcg/kg/min of Neo-Synephrine.
He central venous pressure was 5.  He was making over 1300 cc
of urine in the 24 hour interval.  His arterial blood gases
were excellent.  His hematocrit postoperative was 36.3 which
was stable.  His BUN/creatinine were 18 and 0.8, otherwise
the examination was unremarkable.  His chest was stable.  His
heart was regular.  He was given aggressive pulmonary toilet.
His Neo-Synephrine was weaned and he was started diuresis.
Diet was advanced and he was ultimately transferred to the
floor.  By postoperative day #2 he was feeling well.  His
blood pressure was stable.  He was 99.8 temperature, blood
pressure 96/50, pulse 76, 16 respiratory rate, 97% on 2
liters.  He had taken 1400 p.o. and had made over 1000 in
urine output for the 24 hour interval at this point.  His
chest was gain stable and there was no drainage or erythema.
His skin clips were in place.  Lungs were clear with decrease
at the bases.  Extremities were warm and nonerythematous.  He
was working with physical therapy and was able to get out of
bed and ambulate down the hallway and reached Level 4 on his
first advance.  At this point he was actually cleared from
physical therapy.  By postoperative day #3 the patient
remained afebrile, tolerating a full diet.  He was on a slow
diuresis.  His pain was well controlled.  His heartrate was
excellent in sinus, 70 to 80 range.  Given this the patient
was cleared and slated for discharge to home.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lisinopril 30 mg q.d.
2.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day
3.  Afrin nasal spray as needed
4.  Percocet 5/325 1 to 2 tablets p.o. q. 2009-08-23 00:00:00 prn
5.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6.  Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. to be continued for two
weeks perioperatively.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOW UP:  He can be followed up by
his primary care physician and this can be discontinued
thereafter if he remains hemodynamically stable.  He should
continue on an Aspirin q. day as 123 Any St.usly taken
preoperatively.  He will not require any anticoagulation for
his valve as this was not a mechanical valve.

Follow up with Dr. Efua Bolorin in approximately two to three
weeks from the time of surgery at which time his skin clips
can be removed, wound can continue open to air and he may
shower and pat the wound dry.  No swimming or bathing. The
patient will not engage in any vigorous activity, nothing
greater than 15 lb lifting.  He can walk and may go upstairs
as needed.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.




                            123 Any St.es) 408**], M.D.  3473

Dictated By:Efua Bolorin
MEDQUIST36

D:  2009-08-23 00:00:00  10:05
T:  2009-08-23 00:00:00  12:13
JOB#:  3473
