Admission Date:  2009-09-24 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2009-09-24 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1946-09-24 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  F

Service:  Graciana Bakerink

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  High blood pressure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 32-year-old
African-American female with a history of chronic headaches,
obesity, and hypertension, who is admitted from her primary
care physician's office for a blood pressure of 190/140.  She
reports intermittent headaches for greater than one year
worsening in intensity over the last few weeks prior to
admission.  The headaches typically start in the right
occipital area, move forward across the midline in the
frontal region.  Extensive workup for headaches including
head CT scan had been done all of which was unrevealing.

Over the week prior to admission, she reported worsening of
her headache, general malaise, constipation, and decreased
urination during the day, but increased at night.  She had
recently stopped taking her atenolol which she began in
2009-09-24 00:00:00 of this year because her blood pressure was within
the normal range, and she felt that stopping the medication
might make her feel better with regards to her general
malaise.

Upon seeing her primary care physician for Dorjan Sallis routine office
visit, she was found to have a blood pressure of 190/140 with
4+ protein on urinalysis and was sent to the Emergency
Department.  Her headache was present at the time, and she
reported being mildly short of breath.  She denied any other
signs or symptoms of end organ damage from hypertension
including visual changes, chest pains, nausea, vomiting, any
abdominal pain.

In the Emergency Department, she was given nitroprusside
which dropped her pressure rapidly.  She was admitted to the
CCU where she was begun on a labetalol drip.  Her blood
pressure responded appropriately with a decrease of about
20-25% at which time she was changed to po labetalol and
transferred to the floor.

At the time of transfer, she was in no acute distress, had no
complaints of headache, chest pain, or shortness of breath.
Her constipation and urinary symptoms had resolved.

Past medical history includes obesity, hypertension, chronic
headaches, depression.

Past surgical history includes left tibiofibular fracture
with rod placement and she was status post right ankle
fracture and repair.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Depo Provera although she missed
her last dose which would have been in 2009-09-24 00:00:00.

MEDICATIONS AT TIME OF TRANSFER:  Labetalol 400 mg po tid,
albuterol and Atrovent MDIs prn, sliding-scale insulin, and
Tylenol prn.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother is deceased.  She had hypertension
and end-stage renal disease.  Father has coronary heart
disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient smokes 1.5 to 1 pack per day and
drinks alcohol only socially.

On examination at the time of transfer, temperature max was
98, heart rate 89-96, blood pressure ranging from
130-170/72/101.  In general she was very pleasant, alert and
oriented times three, an obese African-American female.  On
HEENT examination, her pupils were equal and reactive.
Ophthalmoscope was not available at the time, but I was told
by the CCU resident that she did not have papilledema.  Her
neck was supple without bruit or thyromegaly.  Heart
examination was regular.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Her abdominal examination was obese, but soft
and nontender.  She had normoactive bowel sounds.  No
abdominal bruit was heard and there was no costovertebral
angle tenderness.

PERTINENT LABORATORIES:  Her complete blood count revealed a
hematocrit of 36.2.  Urinalysis again had 4+ protein, though
at the time of transfer, there was no protein in the urine.
Chem-7 was significant for hypokalemia reaching a low point
of 2.9.  Creatinine was 1.6 up from her baseline of 1 in
2009-09-24 00:00:00 of this year.  LFTs were within normal limits, and the
patient ruled out for myocardial infarction with enzymes x3.
Hemoglobin A1C was 5.7.  TSH was 3.0.  Cholesterol panel
revealed a LDL of 124, HDL of 45, and triglycerides of 211.
Her cortisol was 15.  Urine drug screen was negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Hypertension:  At the time of transfer from
the CCU, a significant workup had already begun for possible
causes of secondary hypertension including renal artery
stenosis, hyperaldosteronism, pheochromocytoma, 123 Any St.
disease, and hypothyroidism.  Laboratories were sent for all
of these including renin level, aldosterone level, 24-hour
urine for metanephines, am cortisol level, and thyroid
function tests.  Many of these are still pending at the time
of this dictation.  However, ones that have returned include
the cortisol which was normal at 15, aldosterone which was
slightly elevated at 18, though without knowing the renin, it
is difficult to know if this is a state of hyperaldosteronism
because even with renal artery stenosis, an elevated
aldosterone would be suspected.  Still pending are the urine
for metanephrines and the renin level.

MRI/MRA was attempted to rule out renal artery stenosis.
However, because of the patient's body habitus, she was
unable to fit in the MRI machine.  CTA was the next option,
however, Radiology did not want to perform this test in the
setting of a rising serum creatinine of 1.7 at the time and a
Captopril renal vascular nuclear scan was planned.  However,
was not performed prior to discharge.

Her blood pressure was maintained with the po labetalol
150-170 range.  Care was taken not to lower her blood
pressure too quickly.  Renal was consulted in help to guide
the workup for secondary hypertension.  Ultimately, they felt
that it was likely benign hypertension secondary to
nonaldosterone mineral corticoid activity seen frequently in
African-American women.  They did recommend however, ruling
out renal artery stenosis definitively by getting a MRI of
the renal vasculature, open MRI.  They recommended treating
her hypertension with two-drug therapy for now probably
adding a third drug in the outpatient setting to get better
control.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Labetalol 600 mg UPMCE, nifedipine 30
mg sustained release once daily, K-Dur 20 mEq q day, and she
was instructed to continue with her prior outpatient
medications of Depo Provera.

FOLLOWUP:  The patient is instructed to followup with Dr.Dorjan Sallis office.  She has an appointment, 2009-09-24 00:00:00 at 8:45.
She is also instructed to schedule a MRI by calling
test@mail.com at UPMCE Hospital.  She is also to
followup with Dr. Graciana Bakerink Sallis from Nephrology in his clinic
at test@mail.com.  The patient is discharged in good
condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Hypertension of unknown etiology.






                          Graciana Bakerink, M.D.  15621

Dictated By:Graciana Bakerink

MEDQUIST36

D:  2009-09-24 00:00:00  08:37
T:  2009-09-24 00:00:00  05:20
JOB#:  15621
