Admission Date:  2012-05-09 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2012-05-09 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 2002-05-07 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
gentleman with a history of rectal adenocarcinoma and is
status post proctosigmoidectomy with coloanal anastomosis and
loop ileostomy with multiple admissions for partial
small-bowel obstructions who now presents with
lightheadedness and vomiting.

The patient was last discharged from this hospital on 2012-05-09 00:00:00 after a 1-week admission for a partial small-bowel
obstruction.  This was his third documented episode of a
partial small-bowel obstruction since his surgery in 2012-05-09 00:00:00.  The patient reports that he was doing well at the
time of discharge with good oral intake.  Moreover, over that
period time he had been told by both his urologist and his
primary care physician to drink plenty of water to help with
his prostatic hypertrophy.

Then, over the next two to three days prior to admission, the
patient reported a few episodes of lightheadedness, feeling
that he might feel faint.  He denied any accompanying chest
pain, shortness of breath, or palpitations.  This occurred
when he was standing and ambulating and resolved with rest.
Subsequently, this afternoon, he reports the onset of nausea
with clear emesis times one (there were no coffee grounds or
frank blood in the emesis).  With this, he called his primary
care physician who instructed him to proceed to the Emergency
Department.  He reports that his ostomy output has been more
watery, but he is uncertain whether it has increased in
volume.

In the Emergency Department, he was noted to have serum
sodium of 107; which was thought to explain his recent
symptoms.  He was given two liters of normal saline without
an improvement in his sodium.  Thereafter, the Renal Service
was consulted, and the patient was started on 3% normal
saline at 60 cc per hour; starting at around 7:30 p.m. on the
day of admission.  He was admitted to the UPMCE Intensive
Care Unit about two hours later for further evaluation and
treatment of his hyponatremia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Prostate cancer; treated with brachy therapy and external
beam radiation.
2.  Rectal adenocarcinoma; diagnosed in late 2012-05-09 00:00:00 on
colonoscopy.  A proctosigmoidectomy with coloanal anastomosis
and loop ileostomy was performed on 2012-05-09 00:00:00.  His
postoperative course was complicated by a partial small-bowel
obstruction and postoperative leak.  Surgical pathology
showed adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, grade II,
with surgical staging T3 N0 M0.  He has had two subsequent
admissions for a partial small-bowel obstruction with his
last discharge on 2012-05-09 00:00:00.
3.  Hyperlipidemia.
4.  Peptic ulcer disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
1.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Lopressor 25 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Cardura 2 mg by mouth once per day.
4.  Protonix 20 mg by mouth twice per day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco or alcohol use.
He denied any illegal drug use.  He lives at home with his
wife.  Daralee Murrah has three children; one in 123 Any St., one in
[**Doctor Last Name **], and one in 123 Any St..  He worked as a designer for
an architectural firm.  He worked on designs for power plants
and oil rigs.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Sister with colorectal cancer.  Brother with
lymphoma.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed his temperature was 98.4 degrees
Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 71, his blood pressure was
101/47, and his oxygen saturation was 100% on room air.  In
general, the patient was comfortable-appearing, conversant,
fully oriented, and in no apparent distress.  Head and neck
examination revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  Sclerae were anicteric.  Extraocular movements
were intact.  The mucous membranes were slightly dry.  No
oral lesions.  The neck was supple with no jugular venous
distention or lymphadenopathy.  The lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Heart revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  Normal first heart sounds and second heart sounds.
No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender, and nondistended with a well-healed surgical scar.
The ostomy site was with normal appearing mucosa.  There was
watery output in the bag with no blood.  Extremity
examination revealed there was no clubbing, cyanosis, or
edema.  Neurologic examination revealed the patient's mental
status was intact.  Cranial nerves II through XII were
intact.  Motor strength was 2012-05-09 00:00:00 throughout and symmetric.
Sensory examination was without focal deficits.  There was no
pronator drift.  There was no dysmetria.  Finger-to-nose was
intact.  No dysdiadochocinesia.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 8.7 and hematocrit was
29.5 (with 75% polymorphonuclear leukocytes, 3% bands, 16%
lymphocytes, and 4% monocytes).  His prothrombin time was
12.4, his INR was 1, and his partial thromboplastin time was
25.1.  Sodium was 107, potassium was 4.6, chloride was 72,
bicarbonate was 21, blood urea nitrogen was 26, creatinine
was 1.5 (increased from his baseline of 1), and his blood
glucose was 117.  ALT was 20, AST was 18, alkaline
phosphatase was 113, total bilirubin was 0.6, amylase was
286, and his lipase was 67.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram on admission
revealed a sinus rhythm with incomplete right bundle-branch
block pattern, 71 beats per minute, first-degree
atrioventricular conduction delay.  The right bundle-branch
block and the first-degree atrioventricular conduction delay
were new when compared to the prior study from 2012-05-09 00:00:00.

A KUB revealed mildly dilated loops of small bowel with
air/fluid levels, much less pronounced; consistent with prior
study from 2012-05-09 00:00:00.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
impression was that this is a 74-year-old gentleman with a
history of colon cancer, status post resection and loop
ileostomy in 2012-05-09 00:00:00, now presenting with
lightheadedness for two to three days, nausea for one day,
with a sodium of 107.

1.  HYPONATREMIA ISSUES:  The patient's hyponatremia was
thought to be multifactorial secondary to decreased oral
intake, slightly increased ostomy output, and increased free
water intake (which was voluntary).

Given the lack of the patient's responsiveness to his sodium
level with normal saline, he was continued on 3% normal
saline at 60 cc per hour, at a lower rate to avoid central
pontine myelinolysis.  His sodium levels were followed every
three hours.

Over the course of 24 hours, his sodium was noted to correct
from 107 to 118.  As we did not want him to correct any
further, to avoid the risk of central pontine myelinolysis,
the 3% saline was stopped, and the patient was continued on a
normal saline intravenously.

On the subsequent day, the patient's sodium was noted to
increase from 118 to 123.  Thereafter, the patient was
administered no further intravenous fluids, and as he was
tolerating oral intake, he was placed on a regular diet.  His
urine was sent for electrolytes, revealing a low urine sodium
and chloride in conjunction with most serum osmolalities;
pointing toward volume de123 Any St.n as the most likely cause for
his hyponatremia.  In addition, his fractional excretion of
sodium was less than 1%; suggestive a prerenal etiology for
his acute renal failure as well as decreased oral intake as a
cause for his hyponatremia.

2.  ACUTE RENAL FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient's fractional
excretion of sodium prior to hydration revealed a fractional
excretion of sodium of less than 1%; revealing prerenal cause
for his acute renal failure.  The patient's creatinine
subsequently improved to 1 by the day of discharge.

3.  ACIDOSIS ISSUES:  The patient had a predominantly anion
gap metabolic acidosis.  As this could be contributed to his
increased ostomy output, his urinary anion gap was positive;
suggestive of a concomitant renal tubular acidosis.  As his
acidosis did not improve with correction of his renal
function, this was further evidence for a concomitant renal
tubular acidosis.

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  A KUB was done on admission
which revealed nonspecific air/fluid levels.  The patient
also had increased ileostomy output on admission.  During his
hospital stay, he complained of no abdominal pain.  Although
he continued to pass material into his ostomy bag, his output
subsequently normalized.  Although his amylase was slightly
elevated on admission, his lipase was normal.  His diet was
advanced, and he was placed on free water restriction for his
hyponatremia.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was found to have
a urinary tract infection on admission.  He was started on
ciprofloxacin 500 mg by mouth twice per day; to complete a
5-day course.  His urine was sent for culture and was pending
on the day of discharge.

6.  NEUROLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient was found to have no
acute changes in his mental status with a rapid correction of
his sodium level.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was to be discharged to home.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:  The patient was to follow
up Dr. Kasonya Hamersma from Urology within one week of discharge.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  (Medications on discharge
included)
1.  Ciprofloxacin 500 mg by mouth twice per day (for five
days).
2.  Pantoprazole 40 mg by mouth once per day.







                          Kasonya Hamersma, M.D.  25780

Dictated By:Kasonya Hamersma

MEDQUIST36

D:  2012-05-09 00:00:00  09:56
T:  2012-05-09 00:00:00  18:55
JOB#:  25780
